[music]
Good one. That means no more.
Yeah. So, I've definitely
got
a lot
of posterior chain. I felt that a lot.
Like my hamstrings felt like there was a
lot of tension. And it's not because of
weak hamstrings. It's because I've done
not many conventional deadlifts in a
very long time. So, thinking about it,
I've done the last two sessions were
stifflegged deadlifts. So, that's
deadlifts minus leg drive. So, if
anything, that's made my body more
familiar with doing a deadlift without
quadriceps, which is pretty much what I
felt I did right there. So, if I was to
coach myself and look at that, I'd say,
"Use your legs. Damn you." But sometimes
it's not a matter of queuing, use more
legs. Like, I promise you, I'm trying.
I've looked at every single warm-up
weight and watched my hips slightly
lift. And a lot of the times people talk
about possible reasons why your hips
shoot up early. And the default answer
is, you know, out of position. If the
bar gets pushed away, your hips will
come up to pull the bar back. Or if
you're squatting too deep, the shins
push the bar forward. And the barbell
won't leave the ground until it's in
line with your midoot. So when I squat
too deep, see how the shins come
forward? It pushes the barbell away from
the midoot. So it's not leaving the
ground here. So I need to pull my shins
out of the way, which is hips rising
first. So hips rising first so that the
bar can be in line with the mid foot so
that it can come up. Now another reason
why your hips can shoot up early. Uh
I've got experience with coaching people
this way and now I'm coaching myself
this way is familiarization
with Romanian deadlifts and stiff-legged
deadlifts when people do a lot of that.
So a lot of bodybuilders when they do a
deadlift they rarely do I don't want to
say never like some bodybuilders love a
conventional deadlift but objectively
Romanian deadlift or a stifflegged
deadlift is more beneficial for a
bodybuilder because a deadlift is very
general when it comes to building
muscle. A bodybuilder wants to build
specific muscle not general muscle
everywhere. You know when you think
about does a conventional deadlift build
muscle? Of course it does. Where uh
everywhere is the answer. When you speak
to a bodybuilder who's prepping for a
competition about the exercises that
they're choosing, they want to choose a
specific muscle that they're targeting
with that exercise. So that's why a lot
of times bodybuilders use a lot of
isolation exercises. So therefore, uh, a
conventional deadlift is too general for
most bodybuilders. They'd prefer to do
something like a Romanian or a
stifflegged deadlift where it targets
the hamstrings, it targets the glutes a
little bit better than a conventional
deadlift, which is more muscles, that's
why you can shift a heavier load. So, a
lot of the times bodybuilders have this
error when you try and teach them how to
do or if you're a bodybuilder and you're
trying to learn how to do a conventional
deadlift and you find that your hips
shoot up early. A lot of the times it's
because of your motor pattern is too
familiar with stifflegged deadlift or
Romanian deadlift and it's like the
barb's in the right spot. You're not
pushing it forward. You're not squatting
too deep. You're not out of position.
You've just been programmed to use your
posterior chain and not use your quads.
It's not necessarily because your quads
are too weak. It's a motor pattern. So
for me, I look at that that's the first
time doing a conventional deadlift in in
months. [laughter] So before this, if
you guys were following, you noticed
that I was doing a uh sumo deadlift
phase
uh sumo deadlifts onto stifflegged
deadlifts. So it's been more than two
months since I've done a conventional
deadlift. And I come back and I watch
myself. It's like, damn you, hips are
too high. Sit deeper. So, I'm trying to
sit deeper and the deeper I sit, the
more my hips shoot up.
And then, you know, that's 300 kg. So,
great. Like, man, I'm happy to be able
to get I'm 100 kg body weight. I just
did a triple body weight deadlift. 44
years old. I just turned 44.
And I'm still able to hit this number
without really practicing a a
conventional deadlift.
You know, when I say I haven't practiced
conventional deadlift, I'm not saying I
haven't even trained. Of course, I've
trained. And I've trained hard. I
strengthen my quads. I do squats all the
time. And I do stiff-legged deadlifts
and sumo deadlifts. And it still
maintains the strength. However, to come
back with an unfamiliar technique and to
be able to hit 300 kg, I'm super happy
with that. Um, so anyway, so now, how
would I coach myself? Well, I'd look at
that and say, what is the problem? Is it
a queuing issue? I've just explained to
you that it's not a queuing issue. I
know that I need to sit deeper and use
my quads better, but it's just not
happening because of it's a programming
thing. It's a motor learning thing. So,
what I need to do is position myself in
a way that forces me to use more leg
drive. So, that's what I'm going to be
doing in my accessory exercises
is exercises that emphasize leg drive.
So, my favorite one for that is a pause
deficit deadlift. Pause deficit
deadlift. Now, here's the fact with
this. Yes, there's an exercise that
forces you to use that position. But if
I go straight to heavy, I'm going to go
back into autopilot and use the muscles
that my body, you know, the path of
least resistance, the muscles that my
body already is programmed to use. So,
I'll go back to hips shooting up early
and using my posterior chain. So,
therefore, week one of this new program,
I need to use a load light enough that I
don't have to resort to my path of least
resistance. I can still focus on
technique and ingrain that new pattern.
So, that's what I'm going to do. I'm
going to start with I'm going to strip
it a lot. So, that was 300. Um, you
know, just for convenience sake, I'm
going to start I'm going to start with
two red plates and I'm going to rewarm
up again. All right. So, welcome to my
thought process behind my exercise
selection and my programming. All right.
I'm going to strip the plate so you
don't have to watch that. And then we'll
come back at 120. [sighs]
>> [snorts]
>> It's refreshing to only do on 20 after
that. Uh, but yeah, I really like the
feeling of that exercise. So, the things
that I'm focusing on here is the way
that I like to teach it is to use the
leg drive. And the way that you use the
leg drive is think about to get it off
the floor. Don't hinge. Don't use your
back to get off the floor. Lock your
torso in position and almost exaggerate
how much slack you're taking out of the
bar. So that's all I'm doing. I'm
bracing maximally. And all I want to do
is lift the barbell, you know, the same
height as this plate. So whatever that
is, the same height as that plate. So I
don't think 1 in, 2 in. I just think as
little as possible. So just break the
floor. So that's why it's all it is.
It's an exaggeration of taking the slack
out of the bar here. Hold. And then
you're just maintaining tension. Then
from here, it's not about hinging at the
hips. It's about drive those legs
through the ground. Lock your torso in
place. Drive the legs through the ground
or leg press the world away. I'm just
going to keep on going up up. I'll do
triples. You know, it's a lot of
technique involved. It's a complex
movement with a lot of technique
involved. So the rule there is keep
those reps low. If you're doing big
compound exercises where you have to
focus on technique, it's low reps
because when we do high reps of those
exercises, there's a higher risk of
technical breakdown as you fatigue. The
objective of technique exercises is not
to fatigue because fatigue is where
technique breaks down. So I would say
off the top of my head less than five
reps for an exercise like this. What you
got to consider as well is one rep is
kind of equivalent to two because of the
time under tension per repetition. It's
the same time that it would take me to
perform two normal reps roughly. You
know, I say five is the upper limit, but
to be honest, I probably would do even
less. I will be doing less. I reckon
I'll be doing triples. So, what I'll do
is I'll keep on slowly working up. When
I say slowly, I'm warm. So, my next
plate will be a red. So, that's not that
slowly. So, I'll go from 120 to 170.
That's not even counted. That's just
like a feel for the exercise. 170 that's
when I'll get a better feel for the
load. So you know in my head the weight
will be anywhere between 200 like let's
just say around 200 actually that's 75%
of my 300 isn't it top set and then
reduce the weight by 25% and keep on
going 66% that would be 400 to 300 would
be 25%. So you are correct. So it's a
33% reduction.
>> Whatever whatever percentages
percentages percentages machetes does
that make sense
>> last time? What bro?
>> We did the calculations on the wrong
drops.
>> We went like oh is that 8%? I'm like
yeah [__] it's 8 was 6.25.
>> I didn't want
>> and then we went on like oh what a
coincidence.
>> Yeah right. Oh sh. So, we just agreed
and just patted each other on the back.
It's like, "Yeah, you're so good at
maths, bro. Thanks. You, too." And we're
both [__] wrong. How good.
>> What?
>> All right. Just so you know, look how
loose the belt is. So, it's very loose.
It's just accessories, but it um
gives me a nice brace.
Okay.
So, techniques, reach down and armpits
to pelvis. So, this is how I get my lats
and then crown of the head to the
ceiling. And then the thought process is
lock my body in place and then drive
with my quads.
>> [snorts]
>> Okay.
[sighs]
[snorts]
I'll do another set of that. Two to
three sets. Um I mean that's easy. I'll
do three sets.
I'll do three sets and then I'm going to
do a little bit of hypertrophy work
for
my quadriceps. So, it's another
programming strategy that I'm using now,
which is [sighs]
including quadricep accessories on my
deadlift day
and including posterior chain
accessories on my squat day. So, last
squats, I did a whole bunch of 45°ree
back extensions, high volume 45 degree
back extensions, which I really enjoy,
and hamstring curls. So today for my so
this is my deadlift this is my heavy
work and then after this I want to do
some leg press and some leg extensions.
So it's a great way of just accumulating
a little bit more lowcost volume. So
when I say low cost low cost of fatigue
so deadlifts really fatiguing. So on my
squat day I don't just do more
deadlifts. The poster the posterior
chain work that I include on my squat
day is exercises that come with low
systemic fatigue. So 45°ree back
extensions. It targets the muscle. Not
very fatiguing. Add more of those in.
It's totally fine. Same with hamstring
curls. It's not fatiguing. Adding more
of that in. A lot of people say, "Don't
do too much volume because it's
accumulating fatigue." Well, volume of
what? So, I'm not going to go after this
and do heavy squats. It would probably
for me be ineffective because my body is
a little bit too tired to do heavy
squats right now. And same applies on my
heavy squat day. I want to do more
posterior chain accessory work. doesn't
mean I want to do heavy deadlifts after
that. I won't be able to deadlift
effectively. Adding in the extra volume,
I'm choosing lowcost exercises that
target the muscles but don't contribute
to a lot of systemic fatigue. So, yeah,
I'll do two more sets. That was really
that was really easy, but it's week one
of the program and that's the idea of
it. Week one of every program is to, you
know, familiarize yourself with the
demands of the exercises. So, next week
I'm not going to do a single. I'm not
going to do a top, you know, try and
beat the 300 kg. I'll do few sets of
conventional deadlifts. Uh, and then I'm
going to do some pause deficit
deadlifts. Uh, and it'll be probably
heavier. I'll be able to take big jumps.
I'll be able to jump to 220 for 3x3. Uh,
and then the next week, you know, maybe
240, I don't know. Okay. Uh, you know, 5
six minutes rest between these sets and
then we go again.
>> Before you start, why did you choose to
do one rep max?
>> Ah, why did I choose to do one rep max?
This is me being silly. That's why I
chose to do one rep max. You know,
[sighs and gasps]
I do a lot of education on social media
and a lot of people ask questions like,
"What does that how much does that carry
over to your conventional deadlift?" So,
last week I did stiffle-legged
deadlifts, 260 kgs for two reps on a
stiff-legged deadlift. And people say
things like,
"That's my normal deadlift." Uh, you
know, like, "That's a hip hinge, isn't
it supposed to do normal deadlift?" And
I say, "No, that's a a deadlift without
leg drive." So if you bend your knees
more, it allows you to use more
quadriceps but less hamstrings. Right?
So conventional deadlift, that's the
difference between a Romanian deadlift
or stifflegged deadlift and a
conventional deadlift. The conventional
deadlift is more knee bend. The more you
bend your knees, the more you use your
quadriceps and the less you use your
hamstrings. So this is stifflegged
deadlift. That's more hamstrings. That's
conventional deadlift. More more
quadriceps. The more you bend your
knees, the more you're relieving tension
off the hamstrings. So people say,
"That's that's my normal deadlift." It's
like, "Well, if you learn how to use
more quads instead of hamstrings, I
promise you it would be stronger." So it
would be cool if I did two reps on the
300 today and say, "There's my
carryover. I did 260 for two stifflegged
and I was able to do 300 for two um with
conventional, but I wouldn't have got
the second rep today as you clearly saw,
but you know, I would have done 280 for
a double, you know. So either way that's
me demonstrate like I always like to
calibrate my percentages and see what
does this uh exercise how much does it
carry over if I can do like this one for
example I say pause deficit deadlift is
roughly 10% weaker than your
conventional deadlift which would mean I
should be able to do 270 kg for one rep
today with a pause deficit deadlift
which is not unrealistic cuz that's kind
of the calculations that's my my best
pause deficit deadlift is 280 kil gram
for two, but that's when my conventional
deadlift was around 320. So, you know,
roughly you could say this exercise
variation and same with a stifflegged
deadlift is about 10% less than your
conventional deadlift. And that's about
right because I did 260 double and I
would have done that would have meant,
you know, 270 single. So, 270 single
means 90% of my top conventional
deadlift. Did I get the calculation
correct then? I know I did because I
thought about it before and I've used
that one before. 10% of 300 is 30
kilograms. So therefore, um there's an
answer. And that's why So your question
was, why'd you go for a top single? Uh
that's not very intelligent from a
programming standpoint, but I'm a coach
and I'm also an educator. And I like to
teach people not just by telling them
what my calculations are, but rather by
showing them where I get my calculations
from. Um so, and also I'm an ego lifter,
[sighs]
but don't tell anyone.
That's just between us. All right, set
number two.
Repetitions in reserve. Repetitions in
reserve because this is technique.
Technique. And whenever you're doing
technique, you want the technique to
look good. So you leave repetitions in
reserve. When it comes to muscle
building, you want to take those
movements closer to failure. But this
isn't a muscle building exercise. The
muscle building exercises is what I'm
going to be doing next, which is going
to be leg press. And I'm going to be
taking those ones closer to failure.
>> You have the belt.
>> Yeah. You know, it's loose, right? But
and I'm breathing. But for some reason,
I literally
tried it last week and it just felt
stronger. Just felt nicer, you know? And
I I try not to brace this. Well, I don't
brace the same way. I breathe through my
leg presses,
but even though I'm breathing and I'm
not holding my breath, I feel that the
belt, it's just like just holds my body
in place nicely. Um,
now
leg press accessories. Just feeling it,
you know, warming up the knees. And I am
going to do my uh if you saw last week's
video, I did hip dominant leg press
which was a little bit underwhelming. I
did I don't know how many plates. I
think I did [panting]
five plates on each side. Not a huge
amount like compared to some of the bros
that just load these machines. And I did
um you know very very hip dominant. 60
reps for my last set. I did 30 30 and
then 60. It wasn't that hard. But you
know when I look at it it's like it's
not a lot of knee bend. So I do leg
press like I've done posterior chain you
know and and whenever I see this like
the fact is I don't have huge mobility
here. Like if I go deeper you can see my
ass rolling up and I don't want that.
Like I could go deeper but I don't want
my ass to roll up. So I I did as deep as
my mobility allows while still
maintaining my lower back on the on the
platform. But then I looked at it and
it's like the reason I did 60 is because
it's it's quarter squat gang. You know
what I mean? So therefore, [sighs]
I much prefer
low foot position. So low foot position
pushing through the balls of my feet and
allowing for maximal knee bend. So look
at the hamstring is pressed up against
my calf in that bottom position. So this
is where we maximize knee joint flexion
to put the quadriceps at the greatest
stretch,
right? So that's knee joint flexion. So
the quads are an extender of the knee
joint. So [clears throat] take it
through the full range of knee joint
extension to maximize stimulus to the
muscle or the muscles which is the
quadriceps. So that's [clears throat]
what I'm doing now. So just feeling it.
Um, I'll probably do not heavy, not
heavy.
I don't know, five or six plates.
>> Actually, now you'll see that my
that technique is a lot harder because
it's a longer range of motion. Just like
a a quarter squat is a lot easier than a
full squat. You know what I mean? That's
why people do the quarter That's why
people do the quarter squat and they do
lots and lots and lots of weight, but it
doesn't count, of course. So, um, if I
did 60 reps of five plates on the third
set, mind you,
I wouldn't be able to do 60 reps with
the full range of motion. I'm not even
going to try.
>> [clears throat]
[sighs]
>> Go a bit heavier.
>> [sighs]
>> I think that's a good weight and rep
range for me. 15 reps on six plates.
I'll do two more sets of that.
>> [sighs]
>> and then my session will be done. You
know, when I do a leg press, it's like I
feel fine and then I wait a minute and
then then the heart rate comes up.
[sighs and gasps]
Anyway, that's my session. That's my
session. One top single. That's uh I
don't want to call it off plan. It is
off plan. There was no plan. The plan
was to bring back my conventional
deadlift and kind of see where I'm at.
Uh, and as I'm feeling it, I thought,
you know, it'd be nice to see if 300's
there. It's been so long since I've held
that weight in my hands. And it goes to
show, and I've shown it many times, that
[sighs]
you don't have to train the conventional
deadlift for it to go up. And sometimes
a lot of my programs are deadlift on
maintenance and push forward the squats.
Because if you try and push forward the
squats, push forward the deadlifts at
the same time, they interfere with each
other. They compete with each other for
recovery and they both stagnate. So for
me, my strategy has always been push the
squats forward, keep the deadlifts on
maintenance. [sighs]
[gasps]
You know, that's for myself. But at the
same time, I'm a pretty good squatter
and my deadlift has always been kind of
[sighs and gasps]
decent. But like if you compare, my best
deadlift is 3 340 kg. My best squat
is [sighs] 400 kg with reps probably
equal um with raw. I've done I never
really did much raw squatting. So
whenever I did raw squatting, it was to
compliment. So raw means sleeves only.
And my best ever raw I only ever did it
to complement my wrapped work. And the
best ever was 320 kg paused with a
decent pause asked the grass. You know,
take that pause away. I'm sure I would
have done about 340. So, I would say at
my strongest, my best raw squat was 340.
My best raw deadlift was 340. So,
usually people's deadlifts are stronger.
But for me, my squat was stronger. Why?
Cuz I gave it more attention cuz I was
better at it, you know. And some people
are better at deadlifts because they
give their deadlifts more attention.
[sighs and gasps] But either way, I'm
happy with that session. 300 kg. Now
it's time to uh continue to work on my
weaknesses, which is refining that leg
drive. There's always room to improve
somewhere. [sighs]
Hope you enjoyed that session, and I'm
going to see you next time.
[sighs and gasps]
>> Series or best.
>> This series since I've been over 40
years old, the best ever is 310.
Correct. So, you know, I haven't been
competing. I haven't been pushing it.
And actually, it was a couple of months
that I retested. Um, but I was doing a a
proper conventional deadlifting phase.
And I got to 310. That was my max. So,
I'm at 300 and I'm not peing or anything
like that. So, you know, I'm not far off
my current my local PB. I'm sure if I
put more time into it, I'd beat 300 and
10, you know. So that just goes to show
300 for one is a pretty nice baseline to
maintain that to maintain that strength
without really spending a huge amount of
time on it. Anyway, see you guys next